[AUDIO LOGO]
- I am a mineral geek.
I didn't make that up.
People just started
calling me that because I
couldn't stop talking about
how minerals changed my life.
Let me rewind.
It's a winter of 2010.
I'm in my bathtub.
I have a washcloth over my face.
I'm in a lot of pain,
and the pain I'm feeling
is due to the four
sinus infections
I've had in six months.
I've been struggling
to take care of my kids
and continue my
corporate career.
I've just been feeling
so bad for so long.
Maybe some of you
have had an experience
like this, a health crisis
that brought you down.
Maybe it's one of the things
that brought you here today.
My journey started
as a young person
with autoimmune gluten
intolerance and mold exposure
and grew throughout my life
into a myriad of complex health
issues that I went to
practitioners and doctors
and healers trying to heal
one by one by one by one.
But always in the
back of my mind,
there was some sort of
intuition that perhaps there
was something that was
at the source of all
of this dysfunction.
Now, not long after
the bathtub incident,
I was introduced to something
called plant-based minerals.
And they were
really easy to take.
They're a liquid substance.
Tastes like water.
Now, I hate taking
supplements, but they were easy
so I kept taking them.
Now, two months in,
I met my dentist.
It's been an incredible ordeal
to have my teeth cleaned.
They're in my mouth and
I'm sitting there going,
there's no pain.
I'm so surprised.
The dentist comes in.
She looks in my
mouth and exclaims,
the tissues look pink and
healthy and my pH in my mouth
has completely changed.
I'm kind of thinking,
is it the minerals?
So four months in,
I'm at my naturopath.
We're reviewing the results
of the adrenal test.
She looks down at the
paper, looks up at me,
smiles, turns it
around so I can see it.
And my adrenals that have been
flatlined for 2 and 1/2 years
are now 1/3 of the
way up the chart.
And I'm like, is
it the minerals?
I go through one season, two
seasons, no sinus infection.
I'm really starting
to feel good.
And over the space of
about eight or nine months,
most of my chronic
symptoms cleared.
And I'm left with this
incredible curiosity.
How could this small,
1 ounce glass of liquid
make such a profound
difference in my health?
Now, I'm not a practitioner,
I'm not a scientist,
I'm not a researcher,
but I love to learn
and I believe there are
no stupid questions.
So I start asking.
And I delve into
minerals and how
they work in the
body and mineral
depletion and its effects
and how mineral replenishment
actually works.
And I start to have aha
moment after aha moment
after aha moment.
And the first aha
I have is that I
begin to see this whole body as
a single holistic biome, a set
of cellular systems
that work together
in a myriad of
seemingly magical ways
to allow me to stand
here talking to you,
to grow whole
babies in my belly,
to think, and to
feel, and to dream.
Now, I don't stop there.
I just keep asking
more questions
and I get smaller and
smaller till I find myself
inside the cells, looking at
how things operate in there.
And that's where I
find the challenge.
I realize that my cells have
been struggling for years.
And at the source
of that struggle
is something called
the mitochondria.
These energy-generating
units produce
all of the energy in this body.
To give you a sense of scale, on
my arm here, in a single cell,
there's maybe 12
to 15 mitochondria.
In my heart in a single cell,
3,000 to 5,000 mitochondria.
And in my brain, there could
be over 40,000 mitochondria
in a single cell.
You can imagine how much energy
it takes to fuel this body
moment by moment by moment.
So I start asking, what
fuels the mitochondria?
And that's when I have
the next big aha moment.
You see, we've been taught
to think about our body
kind of like a car.
You need oil, put in oil.
You need gas, put in gas.
Somebody said we need 320
of magnesium each day.
So take a pill and
fill up the tank.
But guess what?
The replenishment
system in this body
to get those minerals
into the mitochondria
doesn't work at all like that.
There's no tank.
If you go to your
health food store
and you see the mineral
aisle, and there's
pill bottle after pill
bottle and maybe some drinks
and some powders,
maybe most of them
have one mineral or maybe two,
maybe three or four, maybe five.
But your body needs a
full spectrum of minerals.
That supplement graveyard
that we all have at home
is a testament to most of it.
The fact that most of
it just doesn't work.
So I started looking at
what the difference is.
You see, in that
one glass of liquid
that I take each day is that
full spectrum of minerals
formulated by nature
in the exact ratios
that my body is made of
and utilizes of minerals.
Think of that.
Nature, of course, guess what?
We came from single-celled
beings and multicellular beings.
So there had to be a
technology evolved on the earth
to get the minerals which were
so key to energy production
so that those cellular
systems could thrive.
And that is called
plant-based minerals.
It's mother nature's mineral
replenishment technology.
Your body already utilizes it
and has evolved to utilize it.
You see, that's what
was happening to me.
I was simply getting
remineralized so
that my body could produce
the full amount of energy
that my cells needed.
It wasn't magic.
It was science.
Fuel the mitochondria,
energize the body.
It was just like
I felt like I was
coming alive from the inside.
That's why I'm Caroline,
and I'm just a mineral geek.
Thank you so much.
[APPLAUSE]
[AUDIO LOGO]